this episode is brought to you by target
the ninth and final well for now anyway
entry in the Skywalker part of the Star
Wars saga
the rise of Skywalker is coming soon so
of course it's time for a little
reminder of how we got here but there's
just so much if we wanted to cover
everything Star Wars from The Old
Republic to baby Yoda we'd be here for
weeks
the Ewoks themselves got to movies too
so for the sake of time and our sanity
we're going to focus on the three
generations of Skywalker's Anakin's
journey from Manic Pixie scheme boy to
Mufasa voice cyborg assassin Luke and
Leia's voyage of self-discovery and kylo
ren's constantly evolving helmet choices
that's it no Kessel runs no Life Day
celebrations we have to focus the story
of Star Wars opens as all great fantasy
sagas must with a multi-faceted
fiduciary conflict a powerful shipping
conglomerate called the Trade Federation
at the behest of a mysterious figure
called Lord Sidious has arranged a total
blockade of the planet Naboo riveting
stuff I know two Jedi Knights qui-gon
jinn and his apprentice obi-wan Kenobi
are dispatched to negotiate an end to
the blockade I have a bad feeling about
this
but once they arrive they see that the
Federation is already preparing to
invade the planet they go down to the
surface to warn everyone and meet a
native Jar Jar Binks everyone loves them
right away after a lot of comical
business do do it this time
the Jedi meet up with the planets ruler
Queen Amidala and also a helpful droid
r2d2 they all escape the planet and
blockade to safety there's just one
problem
we'll have to land somewhere to refuel
and repair
yeah I must have attached me what's on
tatooine Queen Amidala goes undercover
as a handmaiden calling herself Padme
so she can explore more freely at the
most ESPA spaceport qui-gon finds the
part he needs at a junk shop owned by
Watteau Watteau owns two slaves a woman
named Shmi Skywalker and her son a
precocious tot named Anakin Padme Anakin
become fast friends the problem is the
Jedi can't afford the parts they need
because Wado is unreasonable and miserly
right it's gonna what economy on them on
there so Anakin agrees to enter a pod
race on behalf of his new friends and
use the winnings to fix their spacecraft
[Music]
as they prepare for the race qui-gon
becomes convinced that not only is
Anakin particularly sensitive to the
force you can see things before they
happen
it's a Jedi trait but he may have a
great and meaningful destiny this
feeling is confirmed when obi-wan
discovers that Anakin's blood contains a
whole mess of midi-chlorians force
sensitive organisms that live
symbiotically within a person cells the
readings of the child and then this
feeling is double confirmed when Shmi
tells him that anakin was immaculately
conceived there was no father I carried
him I gave birth I raised him I can
explain what happened that is a lot to
just drop on someone man she does not
prep him for this bombshell at all
anyway just before the race qui-gon
makes a side bet with Tevye for Anakin's
freedom I wager my new racing pod
against the boy and his mother
Anakin wins the race and though qui-gon
was able to secure his freedom and plans
to train him to be a Jedi
Shmi has to stay behind
[Music]
oh also anakin built a protocol droid
named c-3po for some weird reason and in
a perfect display of why it's fortunate
that children can't actually design
sentient life-forms and it can coldly
abandons his creation to slowly go mad
by himself in an empty room
I'll make sure mom doesn't sell your
anything this was maybe an early warning
sign we need to talk about Anakin as
they're leaving Tatooine qui gonn is
attacked by a mysterious lightsaber
wielding warrior Darth Maul he's The
Apprentice of Lord Sidious from the
trait thing before remember qui-gon just
barely manages to get away and they all
head for Khorasan the capital of the
Galactic Republic to make nabu's case
before the Senate Anakin clearly
infatuated with Padme whom he doesn't
know is actually the queen of Naboo
gives her a good-luck charm
called a [ __ ] or snippet that he's carved
for her then they get to the Capitol and
the movie becomes an episode of house of
cards for about 20 minutes
basically Naboo Senator Palpatine
convinces Padme Amidala to help him get
rid of the current Chancellor a guy
named valorum
so that Palpatine can take his place as
Supreme Chancellor qui-gon brings Anakin
before the Jedi Council and they're not
quite sure what to make of him but he's
by now totally convinced of Anakin's
importance you refer to the prophecy of
the one who will bring balance to the
force since the Republic seems unwilling
to help everyone returns to Naboo once
there Padme reveals that she was
actually Amidala all along and keira
knightley was just a decoy Padme Amidala
makes a deal with charged arts people
the Gungans to work together to fight
off the Trade Federation during the
battle and the cannon are to hide on a
star fighter and accidentally launch
themselves into space they take out the
control ship that operates all the trade
Federation's battle droids winning the
day Darth Maul returns and faces both
qui-gon and obi-wan in this movies one
universally beloved thing taking
advantage of a well placed and carefully
timed barrier he mortally wounds qui-gon
as obi-wan looks on helplessly still
obi-wan gets his revenge but you know
he's a Jedi so it's reluctant revenge
with his dying breath qui-gon asked
obi-wan to train Anakin
and he agrees we will watch your career
with great interest because he's the
Emperor episode 2 picks up ten years
after the Battle of Naboo
Padme is serving as a senator
representing the boot when an attack is
made on her life her steadfast belief
that other people are more expendable
than herself means that she survived
once again former Senator Palpatine now
the Supreme Chancellor of the entire
Republic assigns the Jedi to protect her
bringing her back in touch with obi-wan
Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker his now
young adult apprentice oh my goodness
that's what I love about these
outerspace senators man I get older they
stay the same age since we last saw him
Anakin has grown Restless under Obi
Wan's command in some ways a lot of ways
I'm really ahead of him and has
convinced himself that he's desperately
in love with his old pal Padme not
obi-wan and honestly kind of a scary way
she covered the cameras I don't think
she liked me washing Padme goes into
hiding on her world of Naboo under
Anakin's watchful yet creepy protection
while anakin proclaims his hatred for
his local eco system
I don't lifes and obi-wan investigates
the threat to Padme life at a 50s diner
which somehow exists in space long
before there was a 1950s on Naboo Anakin
and Padme fall in love while Obi Wan's
investigation leads him to the planet
Kamino where he discovers that an army
of clones has been created for the
Republic supposedly on the orders of the
Jedi Council thousand units are ready
with a million on the way Anakin has a
nightmare about his mother leading him
back to his home world Tatooine
there he reunites with his totally non
stereotypical friend Watteau
and discovers that his mother has been
freed from slavery by a man named klieg
Lars
only to be enslaved once more by a
native tribe the Tusken Raiders Anakin
finds her just in time to watch her die
so he takes out the entire encampment
including women and children and I
slaughtered them like animals
anyway obi-wan discovers that the Clone
Army is modeled on a bounty hunter named
Jango Fett whom he trails to the planet
of Geonosis this is where the Trade
Federation has been building its droid
army and also where the
powerful Count Dooku has been building
an alliance of other separatists who
plan to leave the Republic obi-wan sends
a message to the Jedi about what he's
discovered before being captured in
response to this new threat on Khorasan
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine is given
more central control over the government
essentially by Jar Jar Binks Anakin and
Padme get the message and go after
obi-wan but despite their best efforts
they're captured this leads to a faceoff
in the Geonosis arena between Dooku's
droid army and the jedi and ultimately
this fight sparks what comes to be known
as the Clone Wars between the Clone Army
of the Republic and Dooku's joyed
supported separatists as the battle
rages Dooku takes on obi-wan and Anakin
intervenes to save him at the cost of
his own arm then Yoda shows up just in
time to get tranced out and put on a
sick light show
anyway Dooku escapes the film ends with
Anakin and Padme getting married despite
the Jedi mandate not to form attachments
but at least yield us feeling of beat
the Shroud of the dark side has fallen
begun become as we start episode 3
Revenge of the Sith ongoing the clone
war is Anakin and obi-wan sneak past a
massive battle in the skies over
Khorasan and onto the ship of the droid
armies commander General Grievous a half
alien half droid monstrosity it's a
rescue mission for you see grievous and
Count Dooku have kidnapped Supreme
Chancellor Palpatine you won't get away
this time and he doesn't because Anakin
cuts off his hands and then decapitate
him hey his friend told him to okay do
it
Grievous gets away while Anakin brings
Grievous's ship down on Coruscant safely
just barely once back in the capital and
it can get some exciting news but
immediately becomes plagued by horrific
nightmares and which his beloved dies
giving birth those Jedi friends
encouraged him to just you know not
experience grief train yourself to let
go his other friend the Supreme
Chancellor goes a different way with it
telling him that the Sith the dark
version of the Jedi have unlocked the
secret of immortality the tragedy of
Darth Plagueis the wise he could even
keep the ones he cared about from dying
you know this is the better sales pitch
I have to think the Jedi would have
stronger conversion rates if they
emitted their script a little obi-wan
tracked General Grievous to the outer
rim planet of Judah pal and kills him in
a duel he found his one weakness being
shot in the heart this essentially
brings the Clone Wars to a close so
Palpatine sensing the time is right
reveals himself to Anakin my mentor told
me everything about the force even the
nature of the dark side though Anakin's
first instinct is to go to the Jedi and
warn them I think Chancellor Palpatine
is a Sith Lord when it really matters
during a climactic battle between
Palpatine and mace Windu he ultimately
sides with Palpatine and his promise to
save Padme
life Anakin is now all-in on the dark
side and he even gets a new name Dexter
jettster Dom yeah okay Dexter jettster
is better Palpatine then sends Vader to
wipe out everyone left at the Jedi
Temple even the younglings
he also activates a secret bit of
programming installed within the minds
of all the clone troopers spread out
around the galaxy it's called order 66
and it tasks them with killing every
Jedi they can find no not that guy newly
dubbed Darth Vader travels to the
volcano planet Mustafar where the
remnants of the separatist leadership
are hiding out and kills them Oh yellow
eyes that's how you know he's evil or he
has jaundice Palpatine declares himself
the Emperor and Padme goes after Anakin
hoping to save them
however obi-wan Stow's away on her ship
planning to kill him
Padme confronts lord Vader but finds she
can't seem to get through to him then
obi-wan reveals himself and they have an
epic duel at first through the boost
afar Convention Center and ultimately
over and in the planets many picturesque
lava rivers meanwhile Yoda battles the
Emperor and gets his ass handed to him
escaping with the help of senator Bail
Jimmy Smits Organa and his groovy space
convertible now let's see where did we
leave Vader and obi-wan oh yeah
eventually obi-wan gets the high ground
the high ground but Vader foolishly
ignores his high ground having at the
cost of both his legs obi-wan heroically
takes off leaving his old friends
screaming and on fire Vader is
ultimately rescued by Emperor Palpatine
and converted into the mostly robot
monster we know and love on the way back
from Mustafar Padme gives birth to twins
Luke and Leia then dies wait really of
what we don't know why she has lost the
will to live
anyway there's a very sad funeral on
Naboo and she's buried with the little
necklace carving that baby and it can
gave her in the first movie remember
that you should I pointed it out to you
specifically for this payoff Yoda
obi-wan and senator Organa decide to
split the twins up to hide them before
the Jedi Order goes on hiatus so senator
Organa takes let's live as a princess on
Alderaan we've always talked of adopting
a baby girl
while obi-wan takes Luke to Tatooine do
his family send him so you're going to
hide him with his family on the planet
where he came from good plan
Palpatine meanwhile tells his apprentice
that he killed the love of his life you
Wow way to add insult to injury pick a
better moment palps
then the new duo inspect wait they're
building the Deathstar already how do
they manage to keep this a secret for 19
years
oby found out where Anakin was in like
19 minutes so 19 years later rogue one
happens and a team of rebel spies
managed to steal blueprints for the
Imperial station the Death Star that
gives away its fatal weakness after the
entire team of spies dies in the process
and many crew members give their lives
to a Darth Vader action sequence the
plans are delivered to Anakin's daughter
Leia who's now both princess of Alderaan
and an agent of the Galactic rebellion
then we continue with slash flashback to
Episode four of the Star Wars saga a new
hope which picks up right where rogue
one leaves off Leia ship is captured by
the Empire the very empire against which
she's rebelling knowing that she'll be
captured by Darth Vader whom of course
she has no idea as her father you a part
of the Rebel Alliance and a traitor take
her away
Leia downloads the plans into r2d2 whom
of course she has no idea used to belong
to her father and then since r2d2 to the
planet Tatooine which of course she has
no idea is her father's home planet to
deliver the plans to a still hiding
obi-wan Kenobi my father now he begs you
to help him in his struggle against the
Empire help me obi-wan Kenobi
artoo brings along c-3po whom he
probably knows was originally built by
Darth Vader when he was a kid but you
know just doesn't say anything about it
or beep anything about it
once there they get captured by Jawas
and eventually sold to Luke Skywalker's
uncle Owen the moisture farmer who's
been raising him and this is a real
bummer for Luke who already had some big
plans I was going into tosche station to
pick up some power converters he never
does get those power converters while
cleaning the droids up Luke discovers
Leia's message Luke and the droids track
down obi-wan and show him Leia's message
he denies knowing r2d2 which is weird
don't seem to remember they have a
owning the droid but cops - knowing
Luke's father it was the best stunt
pilot in the galaxy he also gives Luke
Anakin's old lightsaber and encourages
him to learn about the force and train
to become a Jedi because it's so fun and
not at all dangerous by the time Luke
returns to the farm the Empire has
tracked the droids there and killed both
his aunt and uncle Luke is devastated
for exactly six seconds then agrees to
go with obi-wan to deliver the Death
Star plans to the rebellion on Leia's
homeworld of Alderaan I want to learn
the ways of the force and become a Jedi
like my father to get there they hire a
smuggler named Han Solo and his
associate Chewbacca saga wise we've
technically met these characters already
but it was another movie that really
doesn't matter who agrees to ferry them
in his ship the Millennium Falcon first
though Han has to murder this bounty
hunter known only as monkey on the way
obi-wan begins Luke's training han
claims not to believe in the force and
even though his co-pilot Chewie was best
friends with Yoda he doesn't say
anything unfortunately before they can
make it to Alderaan the empire destroys
the entire planet as a demonstration of
the Death Star's power by the time Luke
obi-wan han you know everybody arrives
there's no one here but us Death Star's
the Falcon is pulled into the massive
station by a tractor beam the team
sneaks on board and splits up Luke Han
and the droids go save the captive
Princess Leia while obi-wan shuts down
the power to the tractor beams so they
can escape they're about to get away
they don't know yet you guys they don't
know
so obi-wan a Darth Vader meet for the
first time for the last time he calls
him Darth isn't that more of a title
granted to all Sith Lords it's not like
calling him mr. obi-wan throws the fight
but when Vader goes in for the kill he
vanishes
it's a bold strategy cotton but it does
give everyone a chance to get away
Luke so upset to lose the encouraging
hobo he knew for a day and a half that
Leia who just lost her entire planet
steps in to comfort him Han meanwhile
can't be bothered and just wants to get
this bunch off his ship look I ain't in
this for your revolution and I'm not in
it for you princess I expect to be well
paid I'm in it for the money they
delivered the plans and top rebellion
engineers quickly discovered the Death
Star's fatal flaw a small exhaust port
that when hit with torpedoes triggers a
chain reaction that will blow up the
entire station and if the logic of that
bothers you just know that Mads
Mikkelsen built it that way on purpose
there feel better well I used to
bullseye womp rats in my t16 back home
there turns out the rebels get to put
these plans to you soon because Vader
tracked the Falcon and shows up in the
Death Star to destroy both the rebel
base and the rebellion itself Luke goes
along on the mission because hey why not
but it turns out he doesn't need
experience because his elderly drifter
friend is now speaking to him from
beyond the grave
Luke turns off his targeting computer
and plans to make the shot using the
Force
Luke's on the verge of getting blasted
by Darth Vader when han and chewie show
up out of nowhere saving the day Luke
makes the shot and destroys the Death
Star and both he and Han get fancy
metals not chewy though chewy what did
he do a whole lot of nothing he never
even told his best friend he met Yoda
three years later the rebellion has
regrouped and built a new even bassy air
base on the ice planet of Hoth which is
where they're discovered by an imperial
probe droid Luke who's strong with the
force but not knowledge of astronomy
mistakes it for a meteorite and goes to
check it out only to get attacked and
nearly killed by an abominable snow
creature known as a wampa he's saved
from being devoured / frozen by Han but
first he's visited by three ghosts who
remind him about the true meaning of
Christmas know it no that's Scrooge Luke
just sees one ghost and this mess
is not at all holiday-related will go to
the Dagobah from Yoda it's good advice
because the Empire has found them on
Hoth and is mounting a full assault
general prepare your troops for service
attack Han Leia Chewie and c-3po escape
on the Millennium Falcon they have all
kinds of fun adventures that we don't
really have time for and they end up
hiding out at a mining colony called
Cloud City hovering above the planet
bespin it's managed by Hans old friend
Lando Calrissian meanwhile Luke and r2d2
leave Hoth bound for Dagobah because you
should always do whatever your mentor
for three days tells you when you're
bleeding out in the early stages of
hypothermia and full-on hallucinating
Luke drops his x-wing onto the planet
swampy surface and Michio de who's
either testing him or it's got a little
sideways from the day go by heat Yoda
agrees to train him in the ways of the
Jedi which consists largely of swinging
from vines having visions and caves and
being forced shamed much anger in him
like his father meanwhile Emperor
Palpatine remember him since his Luke's
growing power and sends his apprentice a
warning the son of Skywalker must not
become
Vader decides to recruit his son rather
than killing him he will join us or die
muster so he makes a deal with Lando to
turn Luke's friends over to the Empire
which Lando does because capes aren't
cheap Vader has Han frozen in carbonite
I love you
I know and turned over to bounty hunter
Boba Fett who it turns out is a clone of
Jango Fett that was raised as his own
son
remember those two boba plans to deliver
Han to the crime lord Jabba the Hutt in
the next movie Vader then uses Leia as
bait to lure Luke to Cloud City it works
even though Yoda and Ben the Friendly
Ghost urge him not to go mush oh but Han
and Leia will die if I don't
Vader gets the drop on Luke and they
fight meanwhile Lando has second
thoughts he was getting worse all the
time and along with the real star of
this trilogy Lobot turns the tables on
the empire and frees Leia and Chewie
Luke impresses Vader with his sweet
saber skills he wanders but the old man
still cuts off the kid's hand hey it's
the only way he'll learn then it's
confession time i Mari
Luke opts not to join dad on the dark
side and instead plunges down a massive
shaft which seems like it will lead to
certain death but instead neatly
deposits him in an air vent leading
underneath the city that's where Luke
uses the force to telepathically contact
Leia and tell her where to pick him up
like an intergalactic uber I'm the guy
in the flight suit hanging upside down
no the south side of the station the
underneath side I still don't see you
the movie ends with the reunited rebel
friends making plans to rescue Han from
Jabba the Hutt's palace I'll meet you at
the rendezvous point on Halloween also
Luke gets a new hand
now let's never speak of this hand
business again we jump to about a year
later and the Empire is hard at work on
a second Death Star which is somehow
almost done even though the other one
took an entire generation to build I
mean they learned a lot that first time
through don't underestimate the value of
on-the-job experience
meanwhile Luke has a plan to save Han
from Jabba the Hutt's palace on Tatooine
first he sends in the droids with a
message I seek an audience with your
greatness to bargain for solos life then
he has Lando sneak in and poses a guard
while Leia enters in disguise and frees
Han then and this is key they all get
captured next step Luke breaks into the
palace himself and he gets captured wait
was this this plan has the plan failed
or is it still the plan unclear
regardless they all end up on Jabba's
arge enroute to the home of a creature
called the Sarlacc who is eager to
slowly digest them Luke escapes while
Han still blind and woozy from the long
Carbonite sleep accidentally kills the
otherwise very tough badass and
impressive Boba Fett Leia who disliked
her slave costumes so much it has made
her literally homicidal chokes Jabba the
Hutt to death and they all get away Luke
returns to Dagobah
to find Yoda of extreme old age dying
she cannot become Wow baby Yoda is way
cuter I mean it's no contest
Yoda also jumps a final truth bomb on
his unsuspecting padawan
[Music]
soon after Luke's old friend the ghost
hermit operates and comes clean about
the whole hiding the truth about Darth
Vader thing so what I told you it was
true from so it was also not true from a
certain point of view ghosts love
semantic arguments that's actually the
plot of the conjuring 3 as well obi-wan
also gives Luke some insight into Yoda's
final words armed with all this new
insight Luke returns to his rebel
friends just as they're figuring out
what to do about Death Star chapter 2 so
the plan is to send a strike team down
to a base on a moon orbiting the planet
Endor which is generating the shield
that protects the new Death Star if they
take down the shield fighters can enter
the Death Star and blow it up before
it's operational once on the moon the
team evades some stormtroopers on
speeder bikes and makes contact with a
friendly tribe of teddy bears known as
the Ewoks oh the adorable made-for-tv
adventures they'll have the group spends
the night at the Ewok village where
c-3po invents cram it and Luke tells
Leia what he learned from Yoda and
obi-wan come on you haven't always known
or you would have said something don't
lie Luke also tells Leia that he's
determined to save their father from the
Emperor there is good in him I felt it
so he turns himself over to the Empire
willingly I've accepted the truth that
you were once Anakin Skywalker my father
once he has Lucas's captive the Emperor
reveals that well I'll let Admiral
Ackbar saying it's his big moment it's a
trap the Empire has troops waiting for
the strike team on the Endor moon and
they can already fire the Death Star at
the incoming rebel ships Palpatine plans
to use this trap to make Luke so angry
that he'll turn to the dark side replace
his father and doomed the rebellion and
the galaxy
your Luke almost does it too angrily
fighting Darth Vader in a lightsaber
duel and cutting off his hand but the
good side of the force prevails and Luke
decides not to break bad never I'll
never turn to the dark side Palpatine
reacts to this choice by deciding to
give up on turning Luke and just kill
him with Force Lightning finally Anakin
Skywalker decides he's had enough of
this Darth Vader thing and turns on his
master picking up the Emperor and
throwing him down a vent to what
certainly appears to be his death but
who knows JJ Abrams's that bets who
knows let's hope you know what you're
doing JJ honks the very dumb Imperials
into opening up the base which he then
blows up which takes down the Death Star
shields allowing Lando and the
Millennium Falcon to fly in and take it
out again Luke says a final goodbye to
his father they all meet back up for a
celebration in the Ewok village the
prequels have a celebration of their own
and this is where we're currently robbed
of that timeless classic the Yub nub
song also Leia tells Han about her and
Luke Luke burns Vader's body thus
somehow turning him back into Hayden
Christensen for the latest edition and
they all lived happily ever after
for a few years then things totally go
to [ __ ] and the decades after Return of
the Jedi a new military autocracy formed
from the remnants of the empire calling
itself the first order as you can see
there's still big fans of Nazi fashion
stormtroopers and enormous spherical
weapons in this case a planet-sized
laser cannon called Starkiller base at
the head of the first order is the
mysterious Supreme Leader Snoke along
with his lieutenants general Hux and
kylo Ren kylo Ren it turns out is the
no-good bratty son of han Solo and
Princess Leia Ben solo was being trained
in the ways of the force by his uncle
Luke Skywalker but something went very
very wrong now he's become twisted and
evil and dreams of having
Darth energy just like his grandpa Annie
Luke took all this badly and disappeared
Leia became a general in the resistance
fighting against the first order and Han
went back to smuggling hey this is all
important stuff thirty years past all
right so the movie begins on the desert
world of jakku an old man named Max von
Sydow gives a map showing Luke
Skywalker's present location to a
resistance pilot poe dameron but they're
interrupted by kylo Ren and the first
order poas captured but first he stashes
the map in his trusty droid bb-8 who
gets away kylo reads Poe's mind and
figures out that the Droid has the map
and then Poe escapes with the help of a
fugitive stormtrooper who's decided he's
just not that into stormtrooper ring his
name is really just a bunch of letters
and numbers yeah that does seem easier
Finn and Poe escaped in a TIE fighter
but gets separated once it crashes on
the surface of jakku bb-8 is rescued by
a scavenger named Ray who was abandoned
by her parents on jakku many years
before
maybe rey and finn meet and realized
they're helping out the same guy i hope
to escape we ship crashed and finn
starts off the relationship on a very
healthy positive note by lying to her
about everything with resistance yet
resistance just then the first order
arrives looking for bb-8 and the
skywalker map so they escape in the
Millennium Falcon which has conveniently
been stashed and left to the elements
nearby kylo takes it well once the
Falcons in flight it's immediately
tracked and boarded by han Solo and
Chewbacca Chewie
[Music]
who agreed to help get the droid / map
to the resistance han takes his new
friends to a castle on planet takodana
owned by an old force-sensitive friend
named Maz Kanata you think he would have
learned his lesson about trusting old
apparently quite wealthy friends but he
did not at the castle strange voices
lead Rey to an old crate containing the
lightsaber once owned by both Anakin and
Luke Skywalker and last seen plummeting
down a ventilation shaft on Cloud City
she also has a strange vision of a next
time on Star Wars promo and realizes
that she too can access the power of the
force that lightsaber was Luke's and his
father's before him and now it calls to
you the first order just generally
losing patience and all this world
building and ketchup demonstrates the
austin power of Starkiller base by
wiping out the entire hosnian system
then an attachment including kylo ren
arrives on takodana the plan is to take
bb-8 but kylo finds rey first realizes
she's seen the map herself and decides
to just kidnap her and read her mind
this turns out to be harder than he
expected
a lot harder resisted you back on taco
donna poe shows up with some backup
allowing everyone else to escape and
join the resistance at their base on
dakar the resistance formulates a plan
to take out the base as we disable the
shields we take out the oscillator and
we blow up their big gun
see how easy cramming it is when we all
work together okay so Finn Han and
Chewie take the Falcon to the surface of
Starkiller base and finn forces his old
boss captain phasma who
not just have a cool uniform but a ton
of personality and a lot of very
important responsibilities to lower the
basis shields Rea utilizing the force
power of perfect timing escapes from
captivity by using the Jedi mind trick
on Daniel Craig you will remove these
restraints and leave this cell with the
door open
Doran meets up with her friends they
decide to plant charges around the
oscillator making it easier for the
fighters to blow up Starkiller base but
are interrupted by kylo ren han tries to
reason with him cuz do you know he seems
so reasonable leave here with me come on
I am still not over this so Chewie sets
off the charges allowing the x-wings to
blow up the oscillator and the entire
planet weapon thing begins imploding on
itself as the planet crumbles it makes a
very dramatic backdrop for this
important lightsaber battle between Finn
Rey and kylo Finn's badly injured but
Rey does very well overpowering kylo
ren's scarring his face and leaving him
for dead but he's fine
Starkiller base not as much back at the
resistance base r2d2 and bb-8 put their
maps together and plot Luke Skywalker's
actual location ray says goodbye to a
still recovering Finn and takes the
Millennium Falcon to find him and she
does in an iconic Star Wars moment that
can never be undercut Luke loves fresh
milk now more on that in just a moment
episode 8 the popular one picks up right
where episode 7 left off finn still
recovering from his injuries the first
order is bearing down on the resistance
base and raised on the remote planet the
non definitively pronounced act 2 trying
to convince Luke Skywalker to come back
and fight but he's hesitant still
blaming himself for kylo ren's turned to
the dark side Luke has shut himself off
from the force and developed some
radical views time
- n not to mention unconventional tastes
see I told you we'd get there the
resistance manages to get most of their
people out of their Basin into ships and
they think they've gotten away but new
first order tech limits their escape
options kylo Ren leads a team in an
attack on the rebels but hesitates to
actually fire on his own mother general
Leia on the bridge fortunately his
colleagues and the TIE fighters have no
such qualms
Admiral Ackbar dies like he lived in a
trap but Leia survives using the Force
and floats back into the ship she's
unconscious from the strain so admiral
laura dern is appointed to take her
place
we are the spark that will light the
fire that will restore the Republic
while laura dern and the resistance
continues slowly fleeing from the first
order finn wakes up where's ray he tries
to escape the resistance and go find his
friend but he stopped by a techie named
ROS ROS recently lost her sister Paige
who died during a battle that I skipped
over for time Finn Rose and Poe come up
with a plan to get away from the first
order by sneaking onto Snoke ship which
is tracking them stable the tracker our
fleet escapes before they realize so
Finn and ROS go to the casino city of
Kanto bite to find a code breaker who
can do the actual sneaking back on act 2
Luke is giving raised some very
depressing lessons and why the Jedi were
in fact pretty bad at the height of
their powers they allowed city is to
rise create the Empire and light them
out also raise formed a personal
connection with kylo Ren allowing them
to force time so that kylo can share his
super sad story about the time he
thought his uncle tried to kill him such
a ray of sunshine that kylo Ren but he
can wear the hell out of those
high-waisted pants ray tells kylo about
a vision where she went into a cave of
mirrors or something looking for her
parents but Luke interrupts like any
surrogate father in a movie when this
little girl is talking to a boy with the
door closed
Rey becomes convinced that she can save
kylo Ren and win the war against the
first order and given the chance to
redeem his failings as a teacher Luke
continues to fail as a teacher and
refuses to join her ray leaves Act two
to find kylo if I could
we'll talk in spite of Luke's warnings
then forced ghosts Yoda pops up for a
cameo Luke threatens to burn the sacred
Jedi text then Yoda just does it for him
and basically calls him a big old dummy
in front of nor no back at the casino
Finn and Rose watched summon slaves
stable hands being subjected to cruel
abuse by their master and right some
alien horsies and get into so many
adventures they never even bother
meeting the codebreaker they were sent
to find from the thorough system but
they do grab a thief named DJ who agrees
to help them call it Branca good enough
back in the resistance fleet after some
fighting with PO Admiral Laura Dern
reveals her plan to use the main Cruiser
to distract the first-order while the
resistance members board transports and
take refuge on the mining planet crate
this process starts as everyone else
enters Snoke Star Destroyer the
supremacy and gets taken prisoner pretty
much immediately DJ actually turned
rosen Finn in because he's a terrible
guy ray shows up to turn kylo Ren to the
good side and is taken to Snoke who
reveals his extremely tasteful gold
bathrobe also he was the one who
connected her to kylo Ren's mind in
order to lure her there and you were not
wise enough to resist kylo snaps and
take Snoke out man I am glad we did not
get too wrapped up in the mysteries of
that guys back story then kylo and rey
team up to kill all of snoke's personal
guards but then argue about who's gonna
turn who - whose side is if the Jedi the
rebels let it all die then the two of
them destroy Anakin Skywalker's original
lightsaber and a tug of war oh do you
know how much that would be worth on
eBay
just as this fight ends laura dern pulls
a kamikaze move jumping her now empty
resistance Cruiser into light speed and
blasting straight through the
first-order fleet in the chaos that
follows finn kills his old nemesis
special-edition hot topic exclusive
chrome trooper
rebels go then escapes with rose and
bb-8 kylo Ren lights the Huck's about
what happened the girl orders Snoke and
takes over as the new Supreme Leader
then everyone heads down to the planet
crate which despite its appearance is
not covered in snow Salton Sea the
first-order plans to bust through the
bases blast store with a mini Death Star
cannon mr i--'s this star tech it'll
crack that door open like an egg but
they're stalled by two things something
about love that involves Rose and Finn
but more importantly Luke Skywalker
deciding to actually show up for once
after a genuinely touching goodbye to
his sister Leia
I came to face in Maya I can't save Luke
faces off against the first orders
walkers and his former student but it's
all a big distraction Skywalker's doing
this so we can survive Luke's not even
there and I take that thing back about
showing up Luke's actually projecting an
image of himself from his home back on
act 2 I know ghosting means something
else but this is what it should refer to
while kylo fights a lucca graham the
surviving resistance members sneak out
the back of the base with help from the
last Jedi Rey who moves rocks with her
force powers Luke exhausted and having
fulfilled his purpose disappears from
act 2 and becomes one with the force
along with his fake Han which apparently
was grandfathered into the whole
becoming a force ghost thing Poe meets
Rey for the first time wait really how
is that possible and the new rebellion
gathers for a renaissance painting also
it's worth noting that the sacred Jedi
texts were not burned by Master Yoda but
were taken by Rey and are stashed in the
Millennium Falcon and in one of the
world's only pre-credit post-credit
scenes one of those abuse stable hands
on canto bite reveals that he had secret
force powers all along which he's using
to sweep up great job kid you're an
inspiration to all of us and that's it
all you need to know about the Star Wars
saga before you see the rise of
Skywalker well except for rogue one and
solo we breezed right past those and I
guess some of the comic books and the
full multi season runs of Clone Wars and
rebels and resistance go plus there's
some interesting tidbits you can only
experience for yourself by visiting
galaxy's edge I mean just all that stuff
the official tie-in novels and then
you're all set you know what and also
the video games they're probably the
mandalorian you know what I don't know
Chewie punch it get us out of here
this holiday the toys of a generation of
Star Wars fans come home explore a whole
galaxy of Star Wars toys available at
Target
[Music]